[Music]
hey next time you complain that you
don't get enough sleep or sunshine
remember that nobody wants to hear you
complain besides there are places in the
world where people see no Sun for 90
days in a row and only get six hours of
sleep in an 18-hour day it's not some
reality TV show but a real job for a
submarine officer let's find out more
about how things really go underwater
legend has it that the concept of a
submarine was invented as early as 332
BCE Alexander the Great supposedly
submerged his soldiers into the sea in
diving belts Englishman William Bourne
designed a more elaborate concept of a
wooden boat completely enclosed in
waterproof leather in 1578 the first
working submarine for a crew of 12
oarsmen was built in 1620 by Dutchman
Cornelius Van dribbble that's where the
phrase uh-oh it's dribbling up to my
knees in here came from no not really
I just made that up soon after
submarines were actively used for
military purposes in the first
anglo-dutch war and the American war for
independence the Yankee sub in 1776 was
named the turtle and it tried and failed
the sink of British warship in New York
Harbor well a lot of water has flowed by
since then
wink-wink and the submarine has of
course seen a lot of advancements
there are currently ballistic and guided
missile submarines nuclear power attack
submarines diesel electric attack
submarines non nuclear submarines
submarines and special mission
submarines apparently you don't want to
mess with any of these the three major
submarine powers in the world are the
United States China and Russia and the
US Navy boasts the largest underwater
fleet over 70 submarines now also
Marines are different of course but they
all have these key parts there are two
pressure hulls to protect it from the
crazy pressure of water it's 60 times
stronger at
of two thousand feet then at the surface
and you can't survive such pressure with
just some scuba diving gear you know
that's apparently how the diver nickname
crush came to be alright
so one hull is inside the other made of
metal preferably steel or titanium for
extra protection submarines also have
fins
yeah just like sharks call diving planes
or hydro planes they help the sub stay
afloat under the water and when it has
to go up or down they can be maneuvered
the next component is ballast tanks when
they're filled with air the sub Rises
toward the surface and can do so pretty
quickly in an emergency but when they're
filled with water then it sinks down
most submarines have diesel electric
engines the energy from which powers of
huge batteries that drive an electric
motor to move the propellers military
submarines normally have nuclear-powered
engines with small nuclear reactors
inside there isn't exactly much light
under the sea
so submarines mostly have to move
through a complete darkness and use a
sophisticated navigation system there's
GPS satellite navigation that works on
the surface and a system of motion and
rotation sensors under the water
submarines also use sonar sound
navigation ranging to locate their
targets sonar sends out sound waves to
travel through the sea and come back as
an echo
kind of like what whales use this helps
to determine the distances between a
submarine and its target and of course
there are life support systems for the
crew to survive since a submarine is
completely sealed there's got to be a
way for it to get the necessary oxygen
water and warmth to last for months the
nuclear engine generates warmth and
electricity and then electricity is used
to power the life-support systems
producing oxygen separating water
molecules and turning h2o into h2 and o2
some subs can even remove the salt from
seawater to make it drinkable so now
that you know what a submarine is made
up of let's focus on its heart and soul
the crew it takes courage and skills to
become a submariner also pronounced sub
it's a 100% volunteer military position
and those who decide to take it have to
meet certain entry requirements and pass
a series of tests obviously a submariner
has to be psychologically stable and
academically qualified no country will
want someone who is unbalanced dealing
with its most expensive weapons
once they pass the initial selection
candidates start intensive academic
technical and physical training if
you've ever been scuba diving you know
that water pressure is not so easy to
withstand now imagine having to deal
with it for months
any prospective sub officer takes part
in pressure training and testing this
involves doctors supervised submersion
in a pressure chamber with a seal tank
during the escape training future
officers are put in the water and must
quickly ascend letting the air out of
their lungs by yelling as loudly as they
can otherwise the increasing air
pressure in their lungs going up will
kill them
most of them yell ho ho ho multiple
times I don't know if Santa Claus
himself ever did this drill but I can
check for you once the candidates pass
the to pressure trials the second of
them twice as deep is the first they are
proudly called bubble heads and then
it's time to hit the waters a normal
submarine shift lasts 90 days but it can
become longer in an unstable
geopolitical environment a submarine
officer confessed they once spent 300 28
days at sea with stops only to get extra
food supplies as you already know a
regular sub has life-support systems
that generate air and even water but not
food speaking of food the US Navy
realizes the importance of it so much
that the kitchen is the second largest
space on their nuclear subs only the
nuclear reactor itself has more space
occupying one third of the total sub
length together with a propulsion system
the kitchen not only takes up plenty of
space but also offers a huge variety of
meals especially during the first weeks
of deployment when the food is still
fresh submarine chefs make the crew
happy with dishes from lobster
- lasagna - delicious desserts hey I
have a question here
do they serve submarine sandwiches on
submarines and if the sandwiches are
crappy is it a substandard sub sandwich
on a submarine and if so can you sub it
with something else okay okay a hull
stop now anyway a submarines food budget
is higher than any other vessel after
the first couple of weeks the crew has
to eat can frozen or dried food as
there's less and less food left officers
know it's time for a turnover whoa maybe
an apple turnover no not that kind a
submarine normally has two fully staffed
crews the blue crew and the gold crew
the blue crew gets on service first and
stays on patrol for an average of 77
days they then take the sub home or to
an allied port overseas and do turnover
oh that turnover restocking and
maintenance together with the gold crew
for 25 days while the blue crew is on
vacation and training the gold crew
spends their 77 days under the sea then
they switch again and this cycle is
pretty much the life of many officers
well a regular day above the water last
24 hours things are different
under the sea for submarine errs life is
split into three shifts of six hours
making their day 18 hours long they
spend six hours on duty six hours are
given for studying and personal time
when they can exercise and the final six
hours is sleeping time then they do it
again since it's always dark outside
their windows and really really wet the
crew will be unlikely to tell you what
time of day or even what day it is
if you appreciate personal space
becoming a submariner is definitely not
for you it's extremely limited to
fifteen square feet and a bunk called a
coffin in fact you don't even get a bed
completely to yourself
since officers take shifts someone else
might be sleeping in their bunk while
they're on duty and because there's
always someone sleeping aboard slamming
doors or yelling is never
okay normally a submarine has two
showers for 130 crew members they are
allowed to shower for no longer than 3
to 5 minutes so everyone has a turn and
to lessen the strain on the water
filtration system cleaning laundry isn't
easy either
since there's just one dryer and washer
aboard but the worst part is probably
that there's just one bathroom per 40
crew members and since the waste remains
in a tank before its ejection they've
all got to be really careful about it to
prevent its contents from going back out
of the toilet waste not want not goes
without saying now when it comes to
entertainment the choices are pretty
limited as you might guess there is a
tiny gym with one or two machines and
weights available to the crew the
submarine has such limited space that
most of its rooms serve more than one
purpose so a gym can also be a part-time
torpedo room fresh ocean air is
unavailable underwater so there are no
screen doors on a sub because that would
let in all the water and that's a joke
there is also a recreation room with a
plasma TV that serves as a movie theater
and video game room there are cards and
board games to help the crew bond and
entertain themselves as you might guess
submarines don't have Wi-Fi or any
internet whatsoever because their work
is top-secret any communication with the
outside world is rare if it happens at
all the last thing the commanding
officers want is for someone to find out
where the sub is located that's why it's
essential for the crew to be emotionally
stable and be able to be without their
loved ones to avoid unnecessary fights
crew members never talk about politics
but discussing sports is okay life on a
submarine isn't exactly easy and only
the toughest survive there may be the
average annual salary of $100,000 plus
health benefits makes up for at least
some of the stress and pressure the crew
goes through so do you think you've got
what it take to be a submarine officer
let us know in the comments below don't
forget to give this video a like
share it with your friends and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]
you